---
head:
  - - meta
    - name: Permissions-Policy
      content: interest-cohort=()
  - - meta
    - name: Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy
      content: same-origin
  - - meta
    - name: Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy
      content: require-corp
---
# Intro

## What is mxcad?

Mxcad is on the basis of [mxdraw](https://www.mxdraw3d.com/mxdraw_docs), use the TypeScript, c + + language development of a CAD development framework, it provides users with rich CAD development interface, It provides a one-stop solution for the development of CAD software, supporting the rendering of a variety of CAD drawing formats, such as dwg, dxf and other formats. The framework implements a series of apis for online browsing and editing CAD drawings, enabling users to quickly complete the development of CAD plane drawing, editing graphics, dimensioning and other related CAD functions in web pages through this framework. Feature-rich, easy to use and efficient, this framework helps you quickly and efficiently build customizable CAD applications in web pages.

## Features

* Perfect function: With perfect CAD graphics drawing function and graphics editing function

* Strong data interaction: support data visualization in the drawing process

* Personalized development: can be CAD secondary development or user customization

* Rich development interface: low development cost, high efficiency

* High compatibility: Good compatibility with AutoCAD drawings, accurate display and support for all versions of the format

* Support GIS map and CAD combined secondary development

* Open the drawing fast, rendering effect is good

## Function introduction

* 2D support: Search and extract CAD drawing information, measure distance, calculate area, comment, capture, orthogonal, curve discrete, offset, break, array, extended data read and write, extended record read and write, construct selection set, animation, custom entity, group, hyperlink, Undo, Redo, dictionary, layer, annotated style, Line style, text style, viewport, layout, user coordinate system , system variables, drawing comparison, dynamic prompts, etc.

* The main entities are: Line, arc, Polyline, spline, circle, ellipse, ellipse, arc, IMAGE, point, block reference, external block reference, ray, cloud line, text, multi-line text, Alignment annotation, rotation annotation, radius annotation, Diameter annotation, Angle annotation, Layout, viewport, layer, Line, text style, naming dictionary, annotation, Custom entity, proxy entity , reactor, etc.

* Main editing: move, pinch stretch, offset, delete, copy, paste, rotate, zoom, mirror direction, discrete, pattern fill, solid fill, break, calculate curve length, area, nearest point, intersection point, guide Angle, text change line, etc.

* Geometric operations: area, Angle, vector, matrix, rotation, scaling, nearest point, nearest distance, foot, parameter, mirror direction, translation, intersection, interruption, extension, shortest path, longest path.

## Project example

`Online CAD dream drawing` This project is an online preview and editing CAD drawing platform based on mxcad.

Click on the [online CAD drawing dream](https://demo.mxdraw3d.com:3000/mxcad/) to check the project implementation effect.


